+++
title = "Lore of running"
date = "2010-06-05"
+++


[Tim Noakes' Lore of Running](http://www.amazon.com/Lore-Running-4th-Timothy-
Noakes/dp/0873229592) is turning out to be a very good read. Tim's narrative
is convincing and it would be a waste to not follow his advice on running, at
least as a beginner. After running on and off during the last decade, I am now
ready to take running seriously.

First off, I now have a plan in place. So far, I have chalked out some
outlines of the plan. For starters, its going to be a one year plan. This is a
good enough horizon that is not too far off in the future and at the same
time, provides enough time to produce tangible results. So, in the next one
year, I will be working out for 10 solid months and then take a 2 month break,
which Tim says is essential for a serious runner who wants to continue to run
for many years and decades.

Breaking that down further, I also have a plan for this month. Its a run a day
/ walk a day, covering 6 days a week. This is designed to just form a habit of
getting out of the door and working out for half an hour or more. Its simple:
run 30 minutes a day and walk 45 minutes the next day. Repeat from Monday
through Saturday, and rest on Sunday.

This phase (I call it Phase 1) will last for 2 months, and the regimen for
month 2 (i.e. August) will probably vary only a little from what I have
planned for this month. The idea is to just incorporate my learning from this
month into the next, without altering the goal of this phase, which is, get
into a habit of exercising. Though I have not set foot on the road with this
new plan, I am already feeling positive and the chances of success seem to be
high because this plan is not overly ambitious or unrealistic.

And while I plan and implement this one year fitness plan, I expect to get
better at planning itself. Thats two birds with one stone.

