+++
title = "Tricks for engineering your own happiness"
date = "2011-07-17"
+++

[Scott Adams](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scott_Adams)' tricks for
engineering your own happiness. Condensed from a [blog
post](http://dilbert.com/blog/entry/happiness_engineering).

**Food** - When you feel agitated, try eating some carbs.

**Exercise** - Think of exercise as the difference between a good day and a bad day. That is reason enough to exercise.

**Goals** - Have at least one project brewing at all times that has a non-zero chance of changing the planet, or making a billion dollars, or both. That is a good feeling to wake up to.

**Meaning** - First, achieve personal success. Once you reach a more comfortable level, be useful to others in order to find meaning and feel right in your own skin.

**Positivity** - Have an ongoing positive dialog with yourself. Do not incorporate negativity even in your humor. Saying positive things puts your mind into a positive state and attracts positive relationships and positive outcomes.

**A Little Bit of Danger** - Make it a habit to try new things, even if those things scare you a bit.

**Learn** - Feed your brain. The more active your brain is, the more alive you will feel.

**Feel Success** - Make it a habit to often do things you do well. It doesn't matter what that is but doing one thing well gives your ego armor to handle the little things that don't go quite so well.

**Relationships** - Follow the other tips for happiness to attract the sort of relationships you want.

Happiness can be engineered, and luck is a product of good design.

-- [Read the original blog post](http://dilbert.com/blog/entry/happiness_engineering)

