+++
title = "Mirror"
date = "2012-05-29"
+++

Looking at the profile pictures of people on Facebook and Twitter, I see a pattern. From what I have seen so far, the profile pictures fall into one of the following categories:

1. Picture of self from the past when they looked much younger/better
2. Current picture of self
3. Picture of a celebrity
4. No picture

I dont know what to make of the last two, but I have been type 1 until recently, and am trying to move to type 2. Let me explain...

When you remember yourself from the past that you like better than your current self, and if you think those days were better than today, then you probably like others to see you the way you looked in those days. That's type 1.

But if you are happy with yourself today, and that is how you want to project yourself to others, you will tend to put up a recent picture of yourself. That's type 2.

Up until now, my profile picture used to be from 2004, when I used to be at the peak of my physical fitness (no, not the 6-pack kind -- just less fatter than today). That was the self that I always wanted others to see me as. But I have come to a realization that hanging on to the past will not make my present any better, leave alone the future. I like to think that my tomorrow will be better than today. So I recently changed my profile picture to one that was taken recently. This picture is almost like a mirror in front of me, reminding me of what I look like today. And if that image does not match the image that I want to see, I better do something about it now. Be regular at my daily excercise perhaps.  It is almost like looking in the mirror.
