---
title: "Retirement"
date: 2025-10-04T11:21:25+05:30
draft: false
---

It's been over a year since I quit my job.  I think the technical term
for it is "retirement," but for a long time, I couldn't bring myself to
use that word. Stepping away from the regular grind was what I wanted,
but actually accepting that my working life was over?  That took a
surprising amount of time to sink in.  You can call it quits on paper,
but it takes a while for your mind to catch up to the reality of a
completely new identity.

If you've spent decades working, your entire routine is built around
that job.  So, what I didn't quite anticipate was how hard it would be
to figure out how to fill the time.  Honestly, I'm still struggling with
this.  It's a strange feeling, having total freedom but not having a
ready-made structure to put it into.  It turns out that having endless
free time can be just as demanding as having none at all!  It hasn't all
been a struggle, though.  I've been able to focus a lot more on my
health and fitness, which is a huge win.  But it's an ongoing project,
just like everything else.

Now, I'm ready for the next phase. I've realized that I still need
something that keeps my mind sharp.  I'm actively looking for a way to
be creatively engaged, but here's the key difference: I want the
engagement without the stress of a typical job.  No deadlines, no office
politics, just a project that I genuinely enjoy sinking my teeth into.

This new life is still a work in progress, and I'm excited about
exploring this next chapter, figuring out what makes me tick now, and
building a schedule that's truly my own.

